---
title: "Start Blogging With Jekyll and Git"
date: 2021-2-22T15:00:30-04:00
categories:
  - Tech
tags:
  - Blogging
  - Git 
  - Jekyll
---
<meta name="msvalidate.01" content="7A96D455B03667537A649E9E535AC3CF" /> 

### Intention in times of getting into blogging with Git? 
- Learning this collaborative tool called Git # not achieved, I still haven't tried to collaborate using it
- Well described process and structure, no need to dive into HTML, CSS, JS. 

### Jekyll blogging as I perceive it, is used by many introverts to write about the things they have learnt. 
General setting requires some experimentation and following the guides you can find online. Jekyll blogging depends on a lot of previous infrastructure. Let's skip the basics necessities of your energy, it relies on the platforms, tools and framework as: Ruby, Jekyll, Git (GitHub as a choice), markdown and so on. Thus basic competency in any or all of this might be of benefit. 

## Useful Git commands to set up everything
- git status
- git remote -v
- git clone https://github.com/.../.git 

git add --all (git add .)
git commit -m 'another commit'
git push

git reset --hard origin/master 
git config --global core.longpaths true

### somehow, I couldn't access ruby, bundler and jekyll (checking their version in VS Code), thus, I couldn't work with already existing github pages. 
I didn't understand the difference between wsl way and Ruby-installer way. Decided to go with Ruby-installer on  both machines I had. Because.. Memory. Perhaps, for it to work better, one way only is good. One non-dual way. Then I could describe it, iterate it. Kind of the path travelled. 

### Some cleaning in Git
- git clean -d -i #interactive
- git clean -d -n #delete, dry run 

### Here is how to quickly introduce a blog to a tech-savvy person by giving him this tool (GitHub account would be required)
- get minimal mistakes starter theme 
- go live with setting > github pages, choosing a branch 

- _config.yml: exclude from processing (bundle, vendor etc.) 
- add .bundle/ and vendor/ to .gitignore 

- _config.yml: author, name etc. 
- add ava pic, post images to assets/images/
- edit some pages and delete others? = ready to sent to a friend for a feedback 
- _config.yml: add analytics 


### Leaving this as is, as originally this post was a Jekyll blogging intro
Check out the [Jekyll docs][jekyll-docs] for more info on how to get the most out of Jekyll. File all bugs/feature requests at [Jekyll’s GitHub repo][jekyll-gh]. 
[jekyll-docs]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home
[jekyll-gh]:   https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
