---
title: "Post: Momentum"
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - Momentum 
  - Effort 
  - Cost
  - Time
---
The Heart Sutra (Tibetan version) reads ("all-caps" are mine):
likewise there is no Suffering, Origin, Cessation or Path, no wisdom-knowledge, NO ATTAINMENT AND NON-ATTAINMENT.
Therefore Sariputra, BECAUSE THERE IS NO ATTAINMENT, Bodhisattvas abide relying on the Perfection of Wisdom, without obscurations of thought, and so are unafraid.

by FoibleFull (newbuddhist.com), [link](https://newbuddhist.com/discussion/17755/determination)

Yet ... being aware of your current momentum, appreciating the thing that is already here and is not so easily attainable by others: 
- access to ... Dharma, Plum Village 
- health 
- 34... soon to be 35... 
- ready for ...co-living, sharing (community, brotherhood, sisterhood) 
- been exposed to different cultures 

chanda? 
- current need, 1: foundation ..
- current need, 2: spiritual community, values joy, non-violence, love
- current need, 3: wise and loving teachers, brothers

- current desire, 1: become a monastic; 35 years old... 
- current desire, 2: sustenance - health... congruent to the Noble Eightfold Path; 
- current desire, 3: location - looks about right; China was a previous one; what's now? Sangha, physical presence... The US, France, Germany? 
- current desire, 4: life satisfaction, from time to time? If there is Joy, and the way of Enlightment... why crave for it? 

- **current need, 3: ~ proper attachment, secure attachment; Triple gem: Sangha, Dharma, Buddha.**

Who speaks in love and not in hatred... 


rfre... attachment to ...Sangha. Spiritual people, community

And it is said that imperfect confidence (assaddhiyam) in the Buddha, the Dhamma, and the Sangha is the condition that develops unsystematic reflection; and imperfect confidence is due to non-hearing of the True Law, the dhamma (asaddhamma savanam). **Finally, one does not hear the dhamma through lack of contact with the wise, through not consorting with the good (asappurisa sansevo).**

https://www.accesstoinsight.org/ 

"""So if you're struggling with disillusionment, ... clean up something that is dirty, listen to someone who feels ignored. Extend metta, compassion, rejoicing and inclusive equanimity to all you meet without illusions. 

For those who practice, illusions disappear. One becomes...disillusioned.

Without illusion, craving and aversion fade away, leading to dispassion.
""" Someone on forums :) 